believe it or not I am an introverted
person this might seem odd considering
my YouTube channel is dedicated to
creating videos about how to communicate
in front of large groups of people with
energy and enthusiasm
but public speaking it drains me it
truly wears me out and it's interesting
because a lot of my friends they're more
extroverted and they get energized by
interactions by public speaking and
don't get me wrong I always get that
high after getting off of a stage it's a
great feeling especially if the speech
went very well but afterward I am simply
put I'm drained I am out of energy and
the purpose of this video is for my
fellow introverts perhaps you're like me
perhaps speaking to groups of people
maybe it's communicating on a one-to-one
basis or standing up on a spit on a
stage and communicating in front of
large groups perhaps that frightens you
perhaps it wears you down this video is
for you fellow introverts hey everyone
my name is Wade Patterson and my YouTube
channel is all about impactful
communication I want to help you become
a better Communicator communication is a
major part of all forms of life and I
want to help you improve that skill set
so if that sounds like a good plan to
you please subscribe to my YouTube
channel it would mean so much to me if
you're somebody who is introverted but
you want to improve your public speaking
skills my first tip is to practice
practice practice practice practice is
such an important piece of public
speaking and I know there are those
people out there those unicorns who can
simply get on stage and wing it and a
first run through off the top of their
head they deliver something they
communicate effectively and the audience
is incredibly impressed and then they
brush it off of well I just I just was
winging it I had nothing planned I just
got upstage grabbed the mic
but I can tell you first off often those
people are extroverted people and used
to to standing up getting the attention
and communicating to a large group but
second off even many extroverted people
even if they tell you that they were
winging it my guess is they were
actually probably practicing and I would
say strongly I would commit to this that
most speakers if not all speakers
would benefit from practicing even those
people who are incredible getting up off
the top of their head can can rip
something out there I would still say if
those people spent a little bit of time
practicing dialing it in their speeches
could be even better so for you as an
introverted person definitely practice
because the more you practice the more
familiar the content will be and then
your mind because your mind's going to
be occupied when you're on stage you're
going to be thinking about perhaps the
fear you have of speaking or ensuring
that things are going according to plan
you've got enough to worry about you
want to ensure that your speech is
memorized that you know it perfectly and
that is the last of your worries you
could deliver that with your eyes closed
but now here you are delivering a speech
you've got other things to focus on but
the speech itself is dialed in because
you practiced the second tip I have for
anyone who is introverted is to ensure
that your energy is high and that you
are coming to the stage with a loud
vocal tone right off the get-go that
you're smiling and that you have that
positive energy this is something that
comes much more naturally for
extroverted people they're typically a
bit louder and they know how to control
a room whereas introverted people were a
little more soft-spoken we like to hang
out in the background a little bit more
but when you're speaking in front of an
audience you need to be forceful with
your vocal tone and variety you need to
incorporate body language you almost
have to make believe that you are an
extroverted person and really take on
that role because if you don't it's
going to be so difficult to keep your
audience's attention I've talked about
this on the channel before as a speaker
we are dealing with so many distractions
interruptions many people could be on
their phones and if you want them to be
paying attention to you you need to
command that room you need to become an
authoritative individual and command
that stage be loud use vocal variety
but that doesn't mean you can't switch
it up it doesn't mean you can't bring
your voice down from time to time but
this should not be your base level this
is good to bring the audience in but
then boom you want to get their
attention again and you want to say
things with that huge vocal range and
that is what is going to capture your
audience's attention and that goes back
to the first tip of practice you need to
practice these things be purposeful and
intentional of when you plan to use
vocal variety throughout the speech that
way when you get up on the stage you're
not going to have to overthink it it's
going to come natural for you with that
said even though you want to maybe step
outside your element and be loud and
informative with your vocal tone and
variety you still want to be authentic
and that may seem like a little bit of
an interesting juxtaposition to be in of
thinking well Wade my authentic self is
quieter more mild and you're asking me
to to be louder and to grab the
audience's attention I think you sort of
have to do that given the the
distractions and wanting to get their
attention but with that said don't
deviate don't go away too far from your
own style whatever that is an example is
that extroverted people their sense of
humor it might be more more kind of
those loud those rambunctious jokes that
are that are bigger than life whereas
you as an individual might have more of
a dry sense of humor that doesn't mean
you have to copy the way other people
make jokes on stage or even the speech
style or structure maybe some people
have a very specific beginning middle
and end to their speeches but you're
somebody who's more artistic and you
like to take the audience on a bit of a
journey and
maybe even go away from the typical
normal structure but on a purposeful
creative way and that is your style by
all means
be creative be yourself that's one thing
now I'm going to go on a little bit of a
rant but people have argued that
Toastmasters tries to bring speakers
into a very cookie cutter style and
thankfully the club that I go to Kelowna
am Toastmasters they allow for that
creativity they encourage creativity and
that is something I would say is that if
you're an introverted person yes use
that vocal variety get the audience's
attention but don't lose your own
personality those things that make you
great if it's dry humor if it's little
inside jokes whatever it is that makes
you the person you are keep that
incorporate it be your authentic self
whether you're introverted or
extroverted in my experience one thing
introverted speakers tend to do more
than extroverted speakers is rely on
their notes their notes that they have
used to prepare their speech and I am
going to encourage you all of my
introverted friends to not do that you
should attempt to deliver a speech with
either no notes that's the ideal
standard or as few notes as possible
that perhaps you reference periodically
throughout the speech there's a number
of reasons why you don't want to rely on
notes but the first thing I want you to
remember is that the audience doesn't
know what you've written down sometimes
we beat ourselves up because we forgot
to talk about something that we're
originally intending to be in the speech
and sure we want to incorporate all of
those things but it's not the end of the
world if we forget one or two points
because the audience didn't know what we
were planning on speaking to them about
therefore
by not having notes written down sure
you may miss one or two little things
but the power you're going to have on
the things you do talk about is going to
be so much more because instead of just
reading off of a piece of paper very
slowly with likely a monotone voice if
you don't have those notes you can now
focus on other things like eye contact
with the audience which is so important
to keep them engaged you can also use
body language your body your hands
aren't tied up holding a piece of paper
now they're free to do whatever it is
that you're talking about if you're
talking about playing baseball
swing that baseball bat use those arms
be emphatic and those are the types of
things that maybe don't come as natural
to us introverts but they help engage
your audience so while I've encouraged
you to be your authentic self you also
want to Veer away from using notes
because that's not something that has
anything to do with being authentic that
is just a skill set of public speaking
and just because introverted people are
more likely to use notes doesn't mean
you have to use notes I encourage you
ditch those notes focus on the
engagement of the audience my final
piece of advice is not to allow the
label of introvert to Define you maybe
you're somebody who none of your friends
would expect could be a good public
speaker does that mean you will never be
a good public speaker
no not a chance if you want to be you
absolutely can be I remember when I
emceed my first wedding I had people
come up to me afterward who said wait
I'm not gonna lie I thought this was
gonna be a train wreck I did not think
you were going to be able to emcee this
wedding and you knocked it out of the
park you did a phenomenal job and that's
nice to hear kind of a little bit of a
mixed feeling of thinking oh wait a
second why did you think I was gonna
fail but that's the reality some people
might have an impression of you that
you're a quieter person it doesn't have
to Define you when it comes to public
speaking if you follow some of the tips
that I share in these videos or that you
learn from Toastmasters and you
implement those in future speeches I
don't care if you're introverted
extroverted somewhere in the middle you
can be a phenomenal public speaker and
still be your authentic self I hope this
video all of my fellow introverts has
inspired you to take on more public
speaking hopefully it's given you a
couple specific tips that you can take
away if this video or my channel in
general has ever provided you with value
I would ask please subscribe it is the
best way to help me grow this channel I
appreciate every view on every video I
love every comment I appreciate every
subscriber so much thank you thank you
thank you for taking the time to watch
this video people are more scared of
public speaking than they are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it